# (Dataset Exploration Title)
## by (your name here)


## Dataset

> This document explores a dataset containing loans and its 82 attributes for approximately 100,000 loans made on Prosper. The purpose is to find out what factors affect to loan status and how. To answer this question, some data  trimoff and wrangling were made to keep the data tidy and relevant. After wrangling, the dataset used for my analysis has nearly 50000 records. 

## Summary of Findings

> To answer the question above, I only keep the loans having status as Completed, Chargedoff, Defaulted, Past Due (1-15 days), Past Due (31-60 days),Past Due (61-90 days), Past Due (91-120 days, Past Due (16-30 days), FinalPaymentInProgress, Past Due (>120 days), and Cancelled. Among 82 attributes, the following attributes are taken into consideration: LoanStatus, ListingCategory, LoanOriginalAmount, Term, ProsperScore, StatedMonthlyIncome, BankcardUtilization, DebtToIncomeRatio,CurrentCreditLines, OpenRevolvingAccounts.
> Among status-defined loand, although most of the loans is complete, there is a significant amount of Defaulted and Chargeoff loans. The amount of past due and cancelled loans is very small, so is the loans in final payment progress. Among listing categories, debt consolidation is the most common reason for a loan. Other reasons have much less frequency. There is also a large amount of loans with no specific reason. When compared to overall loan status, the proportion of cancelled and chargedoff loans is much higher in Househols Expenses loans, Home Improvement loans, Business loan and Personal loan.
> Interestingly, the distribution of numeric attributes such as BankcardUtilization, Stated monthly income, Loan original amount, Current Credit Lines and Open Revolving Accounts does not correlate to each other and also doesn't show direct affect on Loan status. They have relationship with Prosper score instead. 
> The most common Prosper score given is 8.0, which is relatively high for a 11 scale rating. The more extreme ratings such as 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 and 11.0 are much more uncommon. Completed loans have highest prosper score for most of listing categories, even though listing categories has different prosper score ranges. Completed loans also have highest average score for all loan terms compared to other loan status. However, for this loan status, 12-month term has the highest average prosper score and 60-month term has the lowest prosper score. All loan statuses all have increasing prosper score when the original loan amount increases. This pattern is not clear for Cancelled loan maybe due to the lack of data on this kind of loan.
> Among 3 kinds of terms, 36-month term makes up the most loans, with approximately 45000 loans having this term. 12-month term loans is very rare/almost none for past due, defaulted and chargedoff loans. The proportion of 60-month term loans is much smaller for these loans compared to completed loans. 

## Key Insights for Presentation

> For the presentation, I focus on the relationships between Loan Status, ListingCategory, LoanOriginalAmount, Term, ProsperScore, and BankcardUtilization. I start with plotting the distribution of each attribute above. Among status-defined loand, although most of the loans is complete, there is a significant amount of Defaulted and Chargeoff loans. The amount of past due and cancelled loans is very small, so is the loans in final payment progress. Among listing categories, debt consolidation is the most common reason for a loan. Other reasons have much less frequency. There is also a large amount of loans with no specific reason. When compared to overall loan status, the proportion of cancelled and chargedoff loans is much higher in Househols Expenses loans, Home Improvement loans, Business loan and Personal loan. The most common Prosper score given is 8.0, which is relatively high for a 11 scale rating. Completed loans have highest prosper score for most of listing categories, even though listing categories has different prosper score ranges. Completed loans also have highest average score for all loan terms compared to other loan status. Among 3 kinds of terms, 36-month term makes up the most loans, with approximately 45000 loans having this term. 12-month term loans is very rare/almost none for past due, defaulted and chargedoff loans. 